Hey guys welcome back.
So now we've completely done with our registered form.
We've done on the foundations and we've made sure it works.
Our emphasis is great.
Now you don't do is fix the log in from because we haven't done anything with this at the moment so
long informally just a really really simple nullah register form there was where there was a lot for
us to do in the long form is pretty simple.
Much like we have the register handed up here.
But we only have the log in handle and up here it's been we made that a while ago.
So if we open our and our site is open file open then go to includes then handlers and then log in handler
right here.
So this is the moment all it does is recognize when the log boom boom was press.
So this is really really simple this isn't really not much to do.
All you need do is just get the two values from the log in form the username and password.
Remember we use the names to reference them so we need to use log in username and log in password to
reference them.
So go back to log in handler in all you say is user name equals sign and a score post by this group.
This is how we get these very walls and inside their in username I write and then copy and paste up
alone it's going to be password password this is going to be logmein Password right.
Member they need to match here logon password.
That's it.
So don't have this on the form letter do is call our logon function which we haven't actually read.
Yeah.
So this would be our logging function.
So let's write that function now to go in to a not BHB create a new function.
Maybe the top of one right here the public function sharing log in like that.
OK.
It's going to take two parameters.
They use a name so you end in their password.
Peter what you know right now what we do is we're going to first encrypt the password so we say Peter
will you.
He goes m.d. FIVE.
DO YOU LIKE THAT IS GONNA encrypt the password keys.
Remember I told you that in the uses table the passwords appear like this.
We're going encrypted.
We're going to peck compare the password but this reads encrypt it first because if we type in this
one here's password if we type in password it will output exactly the same string as at.
So we in it endi five if the strings are the same we use the same password.
So first we encrypt the password and then also have to do is check if it exists in as they will.
So query he calls my escrow line and the score query like that.
And this is going to be this arrow Khan connection variable and the query.
He's just going to be select all from users where.
The user name he calls you an I that read me saying quote See the side and.
Password.
He calls her quotes.
Peter you like that.
Okay.
That's it.
That's our query.
And also tattoos check if they have a correct number of rows so check if it was successful or not.
So if.
May I ask you're alive.
And the scorn rose and put a query in there like that.
He calls one service one result found matching this username and password then just return true else
it's false.
Like that is a return true origin false.
It defines one row.
Return true for successful.
If it finds anything other than one return false.
But we also want to our one error message to say we're just going to side here put a ray in a score
push just like we did below this error array like that.
And then the m s going to be constants logmein failed like that would help create this one now so cravin
could log in failed to go to constants class copy and paste one of these olmec from space below because
these are our register error messages so this will be a log in error message.
So log in failed and then rename this to your user name or password was in correct.
Like that I write save an enneking just go to output this now.
So copying basically the code lines we used to update the message below and paste that above the user
name part of the log in form.
Change this to write a new one we just created log in fail like that to log in failed and that should
be it.
Log in function is done was left to do now is check if it was correct and redirect them.
But before we do that we do have to call this function Ohso result he calls a count which is a variable
we created in the register file.
Here count our own log in and then pass in the user name and also pass in the password like that says
the function we just created and then reassembly.
If result it holds true.
Remember I told you you'd actually need to add this is true.
That's fine but to be a bit more explicit we'll just say was all equal true.
We're just going to redirect them.
Header location indexed stop the HP And that's it.
That's all I can do is go back and check this work now.
So I try and log in with rescanning my password was password like that.
If it redirects me it worked great.
And this just check out our addresses worked.
Scroll log in with the wrong user name and the wrong passwords.
Well then there's our message.